before you get your pea plates it's a
good idea to practice driving in a
country with your qualified supervising
driver driving in the country is
different from driving in the city and
suburbs it needs an entirely different
approach country driving may appear
easier there are fewer traffic lights
tunes and cars on the road but this can
cause people to become less aware and
alert don't fall into this trap
for this reason country driving is much
more dangerous you're driving in higher
speeds and you need to concentrate a lot
more what differences do you find
driving in the country from driving in
the suburbs when you drive in the
country you're driving at higher speeds
and also overtaking driving in the
country can be more dangerous because
the roads are unsealed and there can be
more hazards when driving the country
you have to look at the animals because
they may jump out in front of you you
need to deal with driving at higher
speeds
cars overtaking you the possibility of
animals venturing onto the road various
weather conditions dazzling headlights
the remains of tire blowouts and
potentially unfamiliar or dirt roads how
do you feel about driving at higher
speeds on country roads to become more
comfortable at driving at higher speeds
I practice when mums in the car I feel a
bit uncomfortable about driving at high
speeds because it's easier to lose
control of the car because I've only
just started driving I'm kind of nervous
at driving at high speeds but actually
practise of your act where the speed
limits permit start by traveling at 80
corners per hour and then after some
times start to increase your speed to 85
to 90 to 95 to 100 km/h the maximum
speed that a learner can travel in if
possible do this in multi-lane highways
be aware of the speed limit as you drive
through townships generally you need to
low your speed to 80 in 60 or 50
kilometers per hour
you can get used to travelling at high
speeds so what's your speed Oh take you
into these towns so here are some tips
for driving in the country the last
thing you need to do is to get stressed
allow plenty of time to get to your
destination and allow extra time for
possible delays be seen it's a good idea
when you're driving in the country
during the day to try it with your
headlights on low-beam it makes you more
visible to other
vehicle occasionally check your side
mirrors to make sure you're in the
correct position on the road
fractionally left of the center of your
side of the road this will increase the
passing distance called the buffer zone
between your vehicle and oncoming cars
when you're on a long trip generally you
should take a break
every two hours fatigue is a common
cause of serious crashes use designated
rest stops most of the busy single lane
roads in South Australia have overtaken
lanes at regular intervals these are the
safest places to overtake so sit well
back from the slower vehicle relax and
wait for these overtaking lanes to
appear on long journeys people contend
to switch off this can be a fatal
mistake if you are distracted or you
lose concentration and your car wanders
off the road your natural reaction is to
jerk the steering wheel in the opposite
direction if your wheels do leave the
bitumen ease off the accelerator and
don't brake harshly hold the steering
wheel firm with both hands and ease the
wheels back onto the road there's no
time like the present
to take on all this advice and become
more confident driving in the country